---
title: Setup freqtrade with grafana
excerpt: 'How can we monitor bot performance via grafana'
coverImage: '/assets/posts/3/banner.png'
date: '2021-07-04'
tags:
  - freqtrade
  - setup
---

## Table of Contents

## Knowledge Requirement

1. [docker](https://docker.com) - applications in this article are deployed via docker, so you might need basic knowledge about docker and docker-compose for example how to run, view log, or even stop it.

## Introduction

I spent ~2 week for setup freqtrade and dependencies on my personal raspberry PI4.

/assets/posts/3/dep-graph.png

Above image is the simplified version of my setup, on real run I have machine performance monitor, reverse proxy, and postgres database, but I will not be talking about them here.

## FTMetric

I create `ftmetric` docker image which is published on [docker.hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/kamontat/ftmetric).
Due to repository of this project being attached to my personal configuration as well, the source code is not published yet, but I'm trying to separate them out.

### How to use

If you are familar with docker, you can run [helpful command](#ftmetric-helpful-command) section.
Below this example config that you can config

/assets/posts/3/ftmetric-list-config.png

### Configure

The script provide 3 ways to config the settings. By **directory**, By **environment**, and by **argument**. You will found all configuration settings via passing option `--list-config`, it will show config key (for argument) config env (for environment variable) and current value of configuration.

#### Config Directory

> Personally I do not recommend to override this config because if you override it wrong, it might cause server to malfunction.

Published docker images are already bundle to default configuration directory. The config files must be json format with json extension. All files on specified directory will be loaded and merged together. If you want to config directory path to load you can do by 2 config path: `internal.fs.basedir.config` and `internal.fs.dirname.config`. basedir is absolute path from `/` abd dirname is directory name from basedir. 

#### Environment variable

> Recommend for secret value (e.g. password)

All environment variables must prefix with `FTP_` and all character is uppercase. environment variable will not support all configuration that require array value, it will ignore that and throw warning message.

#### Argument

You can pass custom config via command argument with formatted `<key>=<value>`. you will see more example on helpful command section [below](#ftmetric-helpful-command)

### FtMetric helpful command

> Warning you should have fixed version of docker image for example `kamontat/ftmetric:v3.7.3` to avoid break change

```bash
# show help
docker run --rm -it kamontat/ftmetric --help
# show all config listed on this script
docker run --rm -it kamontat/ftmetric --list-config

docker run --rm -it kamontat/ftmetric \
  freqtrade.url=http://localhost:8080 \
  freqtrade.username=freqtrader \
  freqtrade.password=verysecretpassword

```

## Prometheus

For prometheus it very easy to setup but please aware that prometheus did **NOT** has builtin authentication. so If you expose this container to external network, someone might see your metrics. In order to setup prometheus, you have to have 2 things. First is [prometheus config](#prometheus-config-file) which tell prometheus how to get data and prometheus server itself. For my production and this article, I will use [docker compose](#prometheus-docker-compose). 

/assets/posts/3/example-prometheus.png

### Prometheus config file

```yml
global:
  scrape_interval: 1m
  scrape_timeout: 5s
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: freqtrade
    static_configs:
      - targets:
        - "ftmetric:8090"
```

### Prometheus Docker compose

The `extra_host` will allow you to call server on your server (not in docker) by replacing `localhost` with `host.docker.internal`. This might be handy if you run your bot outside docker.

```yml
prometheus:
  image: prom/prometheus:v2.28.0
  restart: on-failure
  # be aware before open the port
  # ports:
  #   - 9090:9090
  volumes:
    # you can config prometheus via this directory (prometheus.yml)
    # - ./prometheus/config:/etc/prometheus/
  command:
    - "--config.file=/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml"
  extra_hosts:
    - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```

## Grafana

First you need to configure datasource to `prometheus` and/or `sqlite/postgres` on setting panel. Else is your imagination.

## Complete docker compose

I use docker-compose to start all dependencies as one. Here is the example of my docker compose

:gist{id="37d40e28fb5aab55a0a13382ca1a0ab9" filename="docker-compose.yml"}
